
                                  newseq 



Function

   Create a sequence file from a typed-in sequence

Description

   newseq creates a sequence file from a sequence that is manually typed
   in at the command-line. This is a quicker, easier and less error-prone
   method than editing such a file in a text editor.

Usage

   Here is a sample session with newseq

   Type in a short sequence to the file 'mycc.pep' in SWISSPROT format:


% newseq 
Create a sequence file from a typed-in sequence
Name of the sequence: cytoc
Description of the sequence: fragment of cytochrome c
Type of sequence
         N : Nucleic
         P : Protein
Type of sequence [N]: p
Enter the sequence: KKKEERADLIAY
output sequence [outfile.fasta]: swiss::mycc.pep

   Go to the output files for this example

Command line arguments

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-name]              string     The name of of the sequence should be a
                                  single word that you will use to identify
                                  the sequence. It should have no (or few)
                                  punctuation characters in it. (Any string is
                                  accepted)
  [-description]       string     Enter any description of the sequence that
                                  you require. (Any string is accepted)
  [-type]              menu       [N] Type of sequence (Values: N (Nucleic); P
                                  (Protein))
  [-sequence]          string     The sequence itself.
                                  Because of the limitation of the operating
                                  system, you will only be able to type in a
                                  short sequence of (typically) 250
                                  characters, or so.
                                  The keyboard will beep at you when you have
                                  reached this limit and you will not be able
                                  to press the RETURN/ENTER key until you have
                                  deleted a few characters. (Any string is
                                  accepted)
  [-outseq]            seqout     [.] Sequence filename and
                                  optional format (output USA)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers: (none)
   Associated qualifiers:

   "-outseq" associated qualifiers
   -osformat5          string     Output seq format
   -osextension5       string     File name extension
   -osname5            string     Base file name
   -osdirectory5       string     Output directory
   -osdbname5          string     Database name to add
   -ossingle5          boolean    Separate file for each entry
   -oufo5              string     UFO features
   -offormat5          string     Features format
   -ofname5            string     Features file name
   -ofdirectory5       string     Output directory

   General qualifiers:
   -auto               boolean    Turn off prompts
   -stdout             boolean    Write first file to standard output
   -filter             boolean    Read first file from standard input, write
                                  first file to standard output
   -options            boolean    Prompt for standard and additional values
   -debug              boolean    Write debug output to program.dbg
   -verbose            boolean    Report some/full command line options
   -help               boolean    Report command line options. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose
   -warning            boolean    Report warnings
   -error              boolean    Report errors
   -fatal              boolean    Report fatal errors
   -die                boolean    Report dying program messages

Input file format

Output file format

   newseq writes a normal sequence file.

  Output files for usage example

  File: mycc.pep

ID   cytoc          Unreviewed;         12 AA.
DE   fragment of cytochrome c
SQ   SEQUENCE    12 AA;   1464 MW;  6F142FA88DADC40B CRC64;
     KKKEERADLI AY
//

Data files

   None.

Notes

   The length of the sequence you can type in is restricted to a fairly
   short length (typically less than 255 characters). If your computer
   beeps at you, you will typically have to delete the last character you
   typed and press the RETURN key.

References

   None.

Warnings

   There will be a maximum permissible length (typically 255 characters)
   of the sequence that may be entered. This is not a property of the
   EMBOSS package but of the computer system you are using. Whenever you
   type something in at the command-line, the text is stored in a buffer
   before being passed to the program. There is often a limit of less
   than 255 characters on the size of the buffer and so also the size of
   the sequence you can specify to newseq. The computer will normally
   issue a beep when the end of buffer is reached, and allow no more
   character input.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with status 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   Program name Description
   aligncopy Reads and writes alignments
   aligncopypair Reads and writes pairs from alignments
   biosed Replace or delete sequence sections
   codcopy Copy and reformat a codon usage table
   cutseq Removes a section from a sequence
   degapseq Removes non-alphabetic (e.g. gap) characters from sequences
   descseq Alter the name or description of a sequence
   entret Retrieves sequence entries from flatfile databases and files
   extractalign Extract regions from a sequence alignment
   extractfeat Extract features from sequence(s)
   extractseq Extract regions from a sequence
   featcopy Reads and writes a feature table
   featreport Reads and writes a feature table
   listor Write a list file of the logical OR of two sets of sequences
   makenucseq Create random nucleotide sequences
   makeprotseq Create random protein sequences
   maskambignuc Masks all ambiguity characters in nucleotide sequences
   with N
   maskambigprot Masks all ambiguity characters in protein sequences with
   X
   maskfeat Write a sequence with masked features
   maskseq Write a sequence with masked regions
   nohtml Remove mark-up (e.g. HTML tags) from an ASCII text file
   noreturn Remove carriage return from ASCII files
   nospace Remove all whitespace from an ASCII text file
   notab Replace tabs with spaces in an ASCII text file
   notseq Write to file a subset of an input stream of sequences
   nthseq Write to file a single sequence from an input stream of
   sequences
   pasteseq Insert one sequence into another
   revseq Reverse and complement a nucleotide sequence
   seqret Reads and writes (returns) sequences
   seqretsplit Reads sequences and writes them to individual files
   sizeseq Sort sequences by size
   skipredundant Remove redundant sequences from an input set
   skipseq Reads and writes (returns) sequences, skipping first few
   splitter Split sequence(s) into smaller sequences
   trimest Remove poly-A tails from nucleotide sequences
   trimseq Remove unwanted characters from start and end of sequence(s)
   trimspace Remove extra whitespace from an ASCII text file
   union Concatenate multiple sequences into a single sequence
   vectorstrip Removes vectors from the ends of nucleotide sequence(s)
   yank Add a sequence reference (a full USA) to a list file

Author(s)

   Gary Williams (gwilliam © rfcgr.mrc.ac.uk)
   MRC Rosalind Franklin Centre for Genomics Research Wellcome Trust
   Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SB, UK

History

   Written (1999) - Gary Williams

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.

Comments

   None
