
                                  seqret 



Function

   Reads and writes (returns) sequences

Description

   seqret reads in one or more sequences and writes them out again. The
   sequence input may be a literal sequence or read from a database,
   file, file of sequence names, or even the command-line or the output
   of another programs. The sequence output can be written to screen, to
   file, or passed to another program. A wide range of standard sequence
   formats may be specified for input and output. If you don't specify
   the input format, seqret will try a set of possible formats until it
   reads it in successfully. The sequence input and output, as for all
   EMBOSS programs, is described by a Uniform Sequence Address. This is
   is a very flexible way of specifying one or more sequences from a
   variety of sources and includes sequence files, database queries and
   external applications.

   There are many options built-in into EMBOSS for detailed specification
   of the input and output sequences, for example the sequence type, file
   format. specification of sequence regions by begin and end positions,
   or generation of the reverse complement of a nucleic acid sequence. On
   output seqret can change the case of the sequence to upper or to lower
   case.

   seqret is useful for a variety of tasks, including extracting
   sequences from databases, displaying sequences, reformatting
   sequences, producing the reverse complement of a sequence, extracting
   fragments of a sequence, sequence case conversion or any combination
   of the above functions.

Usage

   Here is a sample session with seqret

   Extract an entry from a database and write it to a file:


% seqret 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences
Input (gapped) sequence(s): tembl:x65923
output sequence(s) [x65923.fasta]: 

   Go to the input files for this example
   Go to the output files for this example

   Example 2

   Read all entries in the database 'tembl' that start with 'ab' and
   write them to a file. In this example the specification is all done in
   the command line and to stop Unix getting confused by the '*'
   character, it has to have a backslash ('\') before it:


% seqret tembl:ab\*  aball.seq 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences

   Go to the output files for this example

   Example 3

   seqret does not read in features by default because this results in
   slightly faster performance. If however you wish to read in features
   with your sequence and write them out on output, using '-feature' will
   change the default behaviour to use any features present in the
   sequence. N.B. use embl format for the output file as the default
   format 'fasta' reports the features in gff (file "<seqname>.gff")


% seqret -feature 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences
Input (gapped) sequence(s): tembl:x65923
output sequence(s) [x65923.fasta]: embl::x65923.embl

   Go to the output files for this example

   Example 4

   Display the contents of the sequence on the screen:


% seqret 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences
Input (gapped) sequence(s): tembl:x65923
output sequence(s) [x65923.fasta]: stdout

>X65923 X65923.1 H.sapiens fau mRNA
ttcctctttctcgactccatcttcgcggtagctgggaccgccgttcagtcgccaatatgc
agctctttgtccgcgcccaggagctacacaccttcgaggtgaccggccaggaaacggtcg
cccagatcaaggctcatgtagcctcactggagggcattgccccggaagatcaagtcgtgc
tcctggcaggcgcgcccctggaggatgaggccactctgggccagtgcggggtggaggccc
tgactaccctggaagtagcaggccgcatgcttggaggtaaagttcatggttccctggccc
gtgctggaaaagtgagaggtcagactcctaaggtggccaaacaggagaagaagaagaaga
agacaggtcgggctaagcggcggatgcagtacaaccggcgctttgtcaacgttgtgccca
cctttggcaagaagaagggccccaatgccaactcttaagtcttttgtaattctggctttc
tctaataaaaaagccacttagttcagtcaaaaaaaaaa

   Example 5

   Write the result in GCG format by using the qualifier '-osformat'.


% seqret -osf gcg 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences
Input (gapped) sequence(s): tembl:x65923
output sequence(s) [x65923.gcg]: 

   Go to the output files for this example

   Example 6

   Write the result in GCG format by specifying the format in the output
   USA on the command line.


% seqret -outseq gcg::x65923.gcg 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences
Input (gapped) sequence(s): tembl:x65923

   Example 7

   Write the result in GCG format by specifying the format in the output
   USA at the prompt.


% seqret 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences
Input (gapped) sequence(s): tembl:x65923
output sequence(s) [x65923.fasta]: gcg::x65923.gcg

   Example 8

   Write the reverse-complement of a sequence:


% seqret -srev 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences
Input (gapped) sequence(s): tembl:x65923
output sequence(s) [x65923.fasta]: 

   Go to the output files for this example

   Example 9

   Extract the bases between the positions starting at 5 and ending at
   25:


% seqret -sbegin 5 -send 25 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences
Input (gapped) sequence(s): tembl:x65923
output sequence(s) [x65923.fasta]: 

   Go to the output files for this example

   Example 10

   Extract the bases between the positions starting at 5 and ending at 5
   bases before the end of the sequence:


% seqret -sbegin 5 -send -5 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences
Input (gapped) sequence(s): tembl:x65923
output sequence(s) [x65923.fasta]: 

   Go to the output files for this example

   Example 11

   Read all entries in the database 'tembl' that start with 'h' and write
   them to a file:


% seqret 
Reads and writes (returns) sequences
Input (gapped) sequence(s): tembl:h*
output sequence(s) [h45989.fasta]: hall.seq

   Go to the output files for this example

Command line arguments

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          seqall     (Gapped) sequence(s) filename and optional
                                  format, or reference (input USA)
  [-outseq]            seqoutall  [.] Sequence set(s)
                                  filename and optional format (output USA)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -feature            boolean    Use feature information
   -firstonly          boolean    [N] Read one sequence and stop

   Associated qualifiers:

   "-sequence" associated qualifiers
   -sbegin1            integer    Start of each sequence to be used
   -send1              integer    End of each sequence to be used
   -sreverse1          boolean    Reverse (if DNA)
   -sask1              boolean    Ask for begin/end/reverse
   -snucleotide1       boolean    Sequence is nucleotide
   -sprotein1          boolean    Sequence is protein
   -slower1            boolean    Make lower case
   -supper1            boolean    Make upper case
   -sformat1           string     Input sequence format
   -sdbname1           string     Database name
   -sid1               string     Entryname
   -ufo1               string     UFO features
   -fformat1           string     Features format
   -fopenfile1         string     Features file name

   "-outseq" associated qualifiers
   -osformat2          string     Output seq format
   -osextension2       string     File name extension
   -osname2            string     Base file name
   -osdirectory2       string     Output directory
   -osdbname2          string     Database name to add
   -ossingle2          boolean    Separate file for each entry
   -oufo2              string     UFO features
   -offormat2          string     Features format
   -ofname2            string     Features file name
   -ofdirectory2       string     Output directory

   General qualifiers:
   -auto               boolean    Turn off prompts
   -stdout             boolean    Write first file to standard output
   -filter             boolean    Read first file from standard input, write
                                  first file to standard output
   -options            boolean    Prompt for standard and additional values
   -debug              boolean    Write debug output to program.dbg
   -verbose            boolean    Report some/full command line options
   -help               boolean    Report command line options. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose
   -warning            boolean    Report warnings
   -error              boolean    Report errors
   -fatal              boolean    Report fatal errors
   -die                boolean    Report dying program messages

Input file format

   seqret reads one or more sequence USAs.

  Input files for usage example

   'tembl:x65923' is a sequence entry in the example nucleic acid
   database 'tembl'

  Database entry: tembl:x65923

ID   X65923; SV 1; linear; mRNA; STD; HUM; 518 BP.
XX
AC   X65923;
XX
DT   13-MAY-1992 (Rel. 31, Created)
DT   18-APR-2005 (Rel. 83, Last updated, Version 11)
XX
DE   H.sapiens fau mRNA
XX
KW   fau gene.
XX
OS   Homo sapiens (human)
OC   Eukaryota; Metazoa; Chordata; Craniata; Vertebrata; Euteleostomi; Mammalia
;
OC   Eutheria; Euarchontoglires; Primates; Haplorrhini; Catarrhini; Hominidae;
OC   Homo.
XX
RN   [1]
RP   1-518
RA   Michiels L.M.R.;
RT   ;
RL   Submitted (29-APR-1992) to the EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ databases.
RL   L.M.R. Michiels, University of Antwerp, Dept of Biochemistry,
RL   Universiteisplein 1, 2610 Wilrijk, BELGIUM
XX
RN   [2]
RP   1-518
RX   PUBMED; 8395683.
RA   Michiels L., Van der Rauwelaert E., Van Hasselt F., Kas K., Merregaert J.;
RT   " fau cDNA encodes a ubiquitin-like-S30 fusion protein and is expressed as
RT   an antisense sequences in the Finkel-Biskis-Reilly murine sarcoma virus";
RL   Oncogene 8(9):2537-2546(1993).
XX
DR   H-InvDB; HIT000322806.
XX
FH   Key             Location/Qualifiers
FH
FT   source          1..518
FT                   /organism="Homo sapiens"
FT                   /chromosome="11q"
FT                   /map="13"
FT                   /mol_type="mRNA"
FT                   /clone_lib="cDNA"
FT                   /clone="pUIA 631"
FT                   /tissue_type="placenta"
FT                   /db_xref="taxon:9606"
FT   misc_feature    57..278
FT                   /note="ubiquitin like part"
FT   CDS             57..458
FT                   /gene="fau"
FT                   /db_xref="GDB:135476"
FT                   /db_xref="GOA:P35544"
FT                   /db_xref="GOA:P62861"
FT                   /db_xref="HGNC:3597"
FT                   /db_xref="UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P35544"
FT                   /db_xref="UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P62861"
FT                   /protein_id="CAA46716.1"
FT                   /translation="MQLFVRAQELHTFEVTGQETVAQIKAHVASLEGIAPEDQVVLLA
G
FT                   APLEDEATLGQCGVEALTTLEVAGRMLGGKVHGSLARAGKVRGQTPKVAKQEKKKKKT
G
FT                   RAKRRMQYNRRFVNVVPTFGKKKGPNANS"
FT   misc_feature    98..102
FT                   /note="nucleolar localization signal"
FT   misc_feature    279..458
FT                   /note="S30 part"
FT   polyA_signal    484..489
FT   polyA_site      509
XX
SQ   Sequence 518 BP; 125 A; 139 C; 148 G; 106 T; 0 other;
     ttcctctttc tcgactccat cttcgcggta gctgggaccg ccgttcagtc gccaatatgc        6
0
     agctctttgt ccgcgcccag gagctacaca ccttcgaggt gaccggccag gaaacggtcg       12
0
     cccagatcaa ggctcatgta gcctcactgg agggcattgc cccggaagat caagtcgtgc       18
0
     tcctggcagg cgcgcccctg gaggatgagg ccactctggg ccagtgcggg gtggaggccc       24
0
     tgactaccct ggaagtagca ggccgcatgc ttggaggtaa agttcatggt tccctggccc       30
0
     gtgctggaaa agtgagaggt cagactccta aggtggccaa acaggagaag aagaagaaga       36
0
     agacaggtcg ggctaagcgg cggatgcagt acaaccggcg ctttgtcaac gttgtgccca       42
0
     cctttggcaa gaagaagggc cccaatgcca actcttaagt cttttgtaat tctggctttc       48
0
     tctaataaaa aagccactta gttcagtcaa aaaaaaaa                               51
8
//

Output file format

   The output from seqret is one or more sequences, and by default will
   be written in FASTA format.

   If the '-firstonly' qualifier is used then only the first sequence of
   the input USA specification will be written out.

   In some cases the output filename will be the same as the input
   filename, but as seqret reads only the first sequence before opening
   the output file it may try to overwrite the input. Note that this is
   not true of seqretset which reads all sequences into memory at
   startup, but which can need a large amount of memory for many
   sequences.

  Output files for usage example

  File: x65923.fasta

>X65923 X65923.1 H.sapiens fau mRNA
ttcctctttctcgactccatcttcgcggtagctgggaccgccgttcagtcgccaatatgc
agctctttgtccgcgcccaggagctacacaccttcgaggtgaccggccaggaaacggtcg
cccagatcaaggctcatgtagcctcactggagggcattgccccggaagatcaagtcgtgc
tcctggcaggcgcgcccctggaggatgaggccactctgggccagtgcggggtggaggccc
tgactaccctggaagtagcaggccgcatgcttggaggtaaagttcatggttccctggccc
gtgctggaaaagtgagaggtcagactcctaaggtggccaaacaggagaagaagaagaaga
agacaggtcgggctaagcggcggatgcagtacaaccggcgctttgtcaacgttgtgccca
cctttggcaagaagaagggccccaatgccaactcttaagtcttttgtaattctggctttc
tctaataaaaaagccacttagttcagtcaaaaaaaaaa

  Output files for usage example 2

  File: aball.seq

>AB009602 AB009602.1 Schizosaccharomyces pombe mRNA for MET1 homolog, partial c
ds.
gttcgatgcctaaaataccttcttttgtccctacacagaccacagttttcctaatggctt
tacaccgactagaaattcttgtgcaagcactaattgaaagcggttggcctagagtgttac
cggtttgtatagctgagcgcgtctcttgccctgatcaaaggttcattttctctactttgg
aagacgttgtggaagaatacaacaagtacgagtctctcccccctggtttgctgattactg
gatacagttgtaatacccttcgcaacaccgcgtaactatctatatgaattattttccctt
tattatatgtagtaggttcgtctttaatcttcctttagcaagtcttttactgttttcgac
ctcaatgttcatgttcttaggttgttttggataatatgcggtcagtttaatcttcgttgt
ttcttcttaaaatatttattcatggtttaatttttggtttgtacttgttcaggggccagt
tcattatttactctgtttgtatacagcagttcttttatttttagtatgattttaatttaa
aacaattctaatggtcaaaaa
>AB000095 AB000095.1 Homo sapiens mRNA for hepatocyte growth factor activator i
nhibitor, complete cds.
cggccgagcccagctctccgagcaccgggtcggaagccgcgacccgagccgcgcaggaag
ctgggaccggaacctcggcggacccggccccacccaactcacctgcgcaggtcaccagca
ccctcggaacccagaggcccgcgctctgaaggtgacccccctggggaggaaggcgatggc
ccctgcgaggacgatggcccgcgcccgcctcgccccggccggcatccctgccgtcgcctt
gtggcttctgtgcacgctcggcctccagggcacccaggccgggccaccgcccgcgccccc
tgggctgcccgcgggagccgactgcctgaacagctttaccgccggggtgcctggcttcgt
gctggacaccaacgcctcggtcagcaacggagctaccttcctggagtcccccaccgtgcg
ccggggctgggactgcgtgcgcgcctgctgcaccacccagaactgcaacttggcgctagt
ggagctgcagcccgaccgcggggaggacgccatcgccgcctgcttcctcatcaactgcct
ctacgagcagaacttcgtgtgcaagttcgcgcccagggagggcttcatcaactacctcac
gagggaagtgtaccgctcctaccgccagctgcggacccagggctttggagggtctgggat
ccccaaggcctgggcaggcatagacttgaaggtacaaccccaggaacccctggtgctgaa
ggatgtggaaaacacagattggcgcctactgcggggtgacacggatgtcagggtagagag
gaaagacccaaaccaggtggaactgtggggactcaaggaaggcacctacctgttccagct
gacagtgactagctcagaccacccagaggacacggccaacgtcacagtcactgtgctgtc
caccaagcagacagaagactactgcctcgcatccaacaaggtgggtcgctgccggggctc
tttcccacgctggtactatgaccccacggagcagatctgcaagagtttcgtttatggagg
ctgcttgggcaacaagaacaactaccttcgggaagaagagtgcattctagcctgtcgggg
tgtgcaaggcccctccatggaaaggcgccatccagtgtgctctggcacctgtcagcccac
ccagttccgctgcagcaatggctgctgcatcgacagtttcctggagtgtgacgacacccc
caactgccccgacgcctccgacgaggctgcctgtgaaaaatacacgagtggctttgacga
gctccagcgcatccatttccccagtgacaaagggcactgcgtggacctgccagacacagg
actctgcaaggagagcatcccgcgctggtactacaaccccttcagcgaacactgcgcccg
ctttacctatggtggttgttatggcaacaagaacaactttgaggaagagcagcagtgcct
cgagtcttgtcgcggcatctccaagaaggatgtgtttggcctgaggcgggaaatccccat
tcccagcacaggctctgtggagatggctgtcgcagtgttcctggtcatctgcattgtggt
ggtggtagccatcttgggttactgcttcttcaagaaccagagaaaggacttccacggaca
ccaccaccacccaccacccacccctgccagctccactgtctccactaccgaggacacgga
gcacctggtctataaccacaccacccggcccctctgagcctgggtctcaccggctctcac
ctggccctgcttcctgcttgccaaggcagaggcctgggctgggaaaaactttggaaccag
actcttgcctgtttcccaggcccactgtgcctcagagaccagggctccagcccctcttgg
agaagtctcagctaagctcacgtcctgagaaagctcaaaggtttggaaggagcagaaaac
ccttgggccagaagtaccagactagatggacctgcctgcataggagtttggaggaagttg
gagttttgtttcctctgttcaaagctgcctgtccctaccccatggtgctaggaagaggag
tggggtggtgtcagaccctggaggccccaaccctgtcctcccgagctcctcttccatgct
gtgcgcccagggctgggaggaaggacttccctgtgtagtttgtgctgtaaagagttgctt
tttgtttatttaatgctgtggcatgggtgaagaggaggggaagaggcctgtttggcctct
ctgtcctctcttcctcttcccccaagattgagctctctgcccttgatcagccccaccctg


  [Part of this file has been deleted for brevity]

nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
nnnnnnnnntcctgtcctcccgtccatcctctgttcccgggttctcctgcccctttccct
ccccttcctcctcctccatggcctcttcgcctgcccatgctctgtgtgtattgcaggttt
cccagttcatggcgtgtgaggagctgcccccgggggccccagagcttccccaagaaggcc
ccacacgacgcctctccctaccgggccagctgggggccctcacctcccagcccctgcaca
gacacggctcggacccgggcagttagtggggctgcccagtgtggacacgt
>AB000360 AB000360.1 Homo sapiens PIGC gene, complete cds.
ggatccctgctgcagagggggtaacggtgtctggcttgccaagcaatatttgttgtggtc
tatcatggaagaaataaagtcgggcaatatgaattttttttttctcaaatttgccggatg
gctgtggtgtttctgactcttagttttctcattgtgaaaaaggaatgattatcttcttcg
atcctctcaagagtttccttgttttgagtagattgatagctctttaaaggatgctaagct
cagctaatggaagaagagtctagtttctttgaggctttgattttggttaaactatagagc
tcatacctttctgtatggtgcagcttactattgtctttggattggtaacttaaaaaatac
aaataacatgcctttgagaaccaataaaaactatggatattatccctataaatttacaca
aatccagatataagcatgcaatgtgatatacctaagggatatgtgaaccactgagttaag
aactgctttagagggagatacaatgtgagacacaggctttgggataagactttggtttga
atcctggctctgctctgttaccttagggcaaagttacttaagcatcttgaatctcagctt
ttttaccaaagcaggactaatactaacttacaaggtggtgaggattaagtgaaagaagat
acataaggcacttagcacatagtaggtactcaataagcgatagctaacagatgtctatta
ttattcaaggaattataattttcaaatctgaaatgcagttttaatgtcccataaggtgac
taccacatacatttttctcagacttttagtaaactgagttgatttgactttatctcagta
ctactcttgacctttcacaactttcgtaggttcacagtctctctttttctaggaacttgg
ctgtgttgtcctgcctcagagacaaattcatctattgtaggcctagcccctgcctttgaa
aacaaggaaaggttggtagaacatcaacacagcatggaatttccagggaggtctcatttc
aaaacttcataaagaacaagaaccacctggacttctgtgagggcgatgattaaactggcc
tgagtttgaatgaaaggataatgtatgctcaacctgtgactaacaccaaggaggtcaagt
ggcagaaggtcttgtatgagcgacagccctttcctgataactatgtggaccggcgattcc
tggaagagctccggaaaaacatccatgctcggaaataccaatattgggctgtggtatttg
agtccagtgtggtgatccagcagctgtgcagtgtttgtgtttttgtggttatctggtggt
atatggatgagggtcttctggccccccattggcttttagggactggcctggcttcttcac
tgattgggtatgttttgtttgatctcattgatggaggtgaagggcggaagaagagtgggc
agacccggtgggctgacctgaagagtgccctagtcttcattactttcacttatgggtttt
caccagtgctgaagacccttacagagtctgtcagcactgacaccatctatgccatgtcag
tcttcatgctgttaggccatctcatcttttttgactatggtgccaatgctgccattgtat
ccagcacactatccttgaacatggccatctttgcttctgtatgcttggcatcacgtcttc
cccggtccctgcatgccttcatcatggtgacatttgccattcagatttttgccctgtggc
ccatgttgcagaagaaactaaaggcatgtactccccggagctatgtgggggtcacactgc
tttttgcattttcagccgtgggaggcctactgtccattagtgctgtgggagccgtactct
ttgcccttctgctgatgtctatctcatgtctgtgttcattctacctcattcgcttgcagc
tttttaaagaaaacattcatgggccttgggatgaagctgaaatcaaggaagacttgtcca
ggttcctcagttaaattaggacatccattacattattaaagcaagctgatagattagcct
cctaactagtatagaacttaaagacagagttccattctggaagcagcatgtcattgtggt
aagagaatagagatcaaaaccaaaaaaaatgaaccaaaggcttgggtggtgagggtgctt
atcctttctgttattttgtagatgaaaaaactttctggggacctcttgaattacatgctg
taacatatgaagtgatgtggtttctattaaaaaaataacacatccatcaagttgtctcat
gatttttccataaacaggaggcagacagaggggcatgaagagtgaagtaagtgtgtgtgt
gtgtgtgtgtgtgtgtaaagtcacttctttctacccttttcaatgtgctaatgctctttt
atttatctagggctcaaatcttagaacacagggtgctatgctcagttttgttgcccaaga
tcacagaattggttacttaaccttgactcagagtttctaccttgttcttagggaagcata
tcacaactaattgcaaagcagagtgtgatgtgtcacaataagcagaatgctagggggaat
tc

  Output files for usage example 3

  File: x65923.embl

ID   X65923; SV 1; linear; mRNA; STD; HUM; 518 BP.
XX
AC   X65923;
XX
DT   13-MAY-1992 (Rel. 31, Created)
DT   18-APR-2005 (Rel. 83, Last updated, Version 11)
XX
DE   H.sapiens fau mRNA
XX
KW   fau gene.
XX
OS   Homo sapiens (human)
OC   Eukaryota; Metazoa; Chordata; Craniata; Vertebrata; Euteleostomi; Mammalia
;
OC   Eutheria; Euarchontoglires; Primates; Haplorrhini; Catarrhini; Hominidae;
OC   Homo.
XX
RN   [1]
RP   1-518
RA   Michiels L.M.R.;
RT   ;
RL   Submitted (29-APR-1992) to the EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ databases.
RL   L.M.R. Michiels, University of Antwerp, Dept of Biochemistry,
RL   Universiteisplein 1, 2610 Wilrijk, BELGIUM.
XX
RN   [2]
RP   1-518
RX   PUBMED; 8395683.
RA   Michiels L., Van der Rauwelaert E., Van Hasselt F., Kas K., Merregaert J.;
RT   " fau cDNA encodes a ubiquitin-like-S30 fusion protein and is expressed as
RT   an antisense sequences in the Finkel-Biskis-Reilly murine sarcoma virus";
RL   Oncogene 8(9):2537-2546(1993).
XX
DR   H-InvDB; HIT000322806.
XX
FH   Key             Location/Qualifiers
FH
FT   source          1..518
FT                   /organism="Homo sapiens"
FT                   /chromosome="11q"
FT                   /map="13"
FT                   /mol_type="mRNA"
FT                   /clone_lib="cDNA"
FT                   /clone="pUIA 631"
FT                   /tissue_type="placenta"
FT                   /db_xref="taxon:9606"
FT   misc_feature    57..278
FT                   /note="ubiquitin like part"
FT   CDS             57..458
FT                   /gene="fau"
FT                   /db_xref="GDB:135476"
FT                   /db_xref="GOA:P35544"
FT                   /db_xref="GOA:P62861"
FT                   /db_xref="HGNC:3597"
FT                   /db_xref="UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P35544"
FT                   /db_xref="UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P62861"
FT                   /protein_id="CAA46716.1"
FT                   /translation="MQLFVRAQELHTFEVTGQETVAQIKAHVASLEGIAPEDQVVLLA
G
FT                   APLEDEATLGQCGVEALTTLEVAGRMLGGKVHGSLARAGKVRGQTPKVAKQEKKKKKT
G
FT                   RAKRRMQYNRRFVNVVPTFGKKKGPNANS"
FT   misc_feature    98..102
FT                   /note="nucleolar localization signal"
FT   misc_feature    279..458
FT                   /note="S30 part"
FT   polyA_signal    484..489
FT   polyA_site      509
XX
SQ   Sequence 518 BP; 125 A; 139 C; 148 G; 106 T; 0 other;
     ttcctctttc tcgactccat cttcgcggta gctgggaccg ccgttcagtc gccaatatgc        6
0
     agctctttgt ccgcgcccag gagctacaca ccttcgaggt gaccggccag gaaacggtcg       12
0
     cccagatcaa ggctcatgta gcctcactgg agggcattgc cccggaagat caagtcgtgc       18
0
     tcctggcagg cgcgcccctg gaggatgagg ccactctggg ccagtgcggg gtggaggccc       24
0
     tgactaccct ggaagtagca ggccgcatgc ttggaggtaa agttcatggt tccctggccc       30
0
     gtgctggaaa agtgagaggt cagactccta aggtggccaa acaggagaag aagaagaaga       36
0
     agacaggtcg ggctaagcgg cggatgcagt acaaccggcg ctttgtcaac gttgtgccca       42
0
     cctttggcaa gaagaagggc cccaatgcca actcttaagt cttttgtaat tctggctttc       48
0
     tctaataaaa aagccactta gttcagtcaa aaaaaaaa                               51
8
//

  Output files for usage example 5

  File: x65923.gcg

!!NA_SEQUENCE 1.0

H.sapiens fau mRNA

X65923  Length: 518  Type: N  Check: 2981 ..

   1 ttcctctttc tcgactccat cttcgcggta gctgggaccg ccgttcagtc

  51 gccaatatgc agctctttgt ccgcgcccag gagctacaca ccttcgaggt

 101 gaccggccag gaaacggtcg cccagatcaa ggctcatgta gcctcactgg

 151 agggcattgc cccggaagat caagtcgtgc tcctggcagg cgcgcccctg

 201 gaggatgagg ccactctggg ccagtgcggg gtggaggccc tgactaccct

 251 ggaagtagca ggccgcatgc ttggaggtaa agttcatggt tccctggccc

 301 gtgctggaaa agtgagaggt cagactccta aggtggccaa acaggagaag

 351 aagaagaaga agacaggtcg ggctaagcgg cggatgcagt acaaccggcg

 401 ctttgtcaac gttgtgccca cctttggcaa gaagaagggc cccaatgcca

 451 actcttaagt cttttgtaat tctggctttc tctaataaaa aagccactta

 501 gttcagtcaa aaaaaaaa

  Output files for usage example 8

  File: x65923.fasta

>X65923 X65923.1 H.sapiens fau mRNA
ttttttttttgactgaactaagtggcttttttattagagaaagccagaattacaaaagac
ttaagagttggcattggggcccttcttcttgccaaaggtgggcacaacgttgacaaagcg
ccggttgtactgcatccgccgcttagcccgacctgtcttcttcttcttcttctcctgttt
ggccaccttaggagtctgacctctcacttttccagcacgggccagggaaccatgaacttt
acctccaagcatgcggcctgctacttccagggtagtcagggcctccaccccgcactggcc
cagagtggcctcatcctccaggggcgcgcctgccaggagcacgacttgatcttccggggc
aatgccctccagtgaggctacatgagccttgatctgggcgaccgtttcctggccggtcac
ctcgaaggtgtgtagctcctgggcgcggacaaagagctgcatattggcgactgaacggcg
gtcccagctaccgcgaagatggagtcgagaaagaggaa

  Output files for usage example 9

  File: x65923.fasta

>X65923 X65923.1 H.sapiens fau mRNA
tctttctcgactccatcttcg

  Output files for usage example 10

  File: x65923.fasta

>X65923 X65923.1 H.sapiens fau mRNA
tctttctcgactccatcttcgcggtagctgggaccgccgttcagtcgccaatatgcagct
ctttgtccgcgcccaggagctacacaccttcgaggtgaccggccaggaaacggtcgccca
gatcaaggctcatgtagcctcactggagggcattgccccggaagatcaagtcgtgctcct
ggcaggcgcgcccctggaggatgaggccactctgggccagtgcggggtggaggccctgac
taccctggaagtagcaggccgcatgcttggaggtaaagttcatggttccctggcccgtgc
tggaaaagtgagaggtcagactcctaaggtggccaaacaggagaagaagaagaagaagac
aggtcgggctaagcggcggatgcagtacaaccggcgctttgtcaacgttgtgcccacctt
tggcaagaagaagggccccaatgccaactcttaagtcttttgtaattctggctttctcta
ataaaaaagccacttagttcagtcaaaaaa

  Output files for usage example 11

  File: hall.seq

>H45989 H45989.1 yo13c02.s1 Soares adult brain N2b5HB55Y Homo sapiens cDNA clon
e IMAGE:177794 3', mRNA sequence.
ccggnaagctcancttggaccaccgactctcgantgnntcgccgcgggagccggntggan
aacctgagcgggactggnagaaggagcagagggaggcagcacccggcgtgacggnagtgt
gtggggcactcaggccttccgcagtgtcatctgccacacggaaggcacggccacgggcag
gggggtctatgatcttctgcatgcccagctggcatggccccacgtagagtggnntggcgt
ctcggtgctggtcagcgacacgttgtcctggctgggcaggtccagctcccggaggacctg
gggcttcagcttcccgtagcgctggctgcagtgacggatgctcttgcgctgccatttctg
ggtgctgtcactgtccttgctcactccaaaccagttcggcggtccccctgcggatggtct
gtgttgatggacgtttgggctttgcagcaccggccgccgagttcatggtngggtnaagag
atttgggttttttcn

Data files

   None.

Notes

   This description of what you can do when reading or writing files is
   not specific to the program seqret. All EMBOSS programs that read or
   write sequences can do the same.

   seqret is often one of the first programs taught in EMBOSS training
   courses. This is because it is versatile, it is extremely powerful for
   its size (17 lines of code) it illustrates many aspects of EMBOSS
   programs and it was one of the first EMBOSS programs to be written, so
   it has a special place in the hearts of EMBOSS developers.

   The name 'seqret' derives both from its function ("sequence return")
   and from the fact that immense amounts of functionality can come from
   so few lines of source code - most of the work is done by the EMBOSS
   libraries which the program calls and whose complexity is hidden, or
   "secret".

   The simplicity of the above description of this program greatly
   understates the rich functionality of this program.

   Because EMBOSS programs can take a wide range of qualifiers that
   slightly change the behaviour of the program when reading or writing a
   sequence, this program can do many more things than simply "read and
   write a sequence".

   seqret can read a sequence or many sequences from databases, files,
   files of sequence names, the command-line or the output of other
   programs and then can write them to files, the screen or pass them to
   other programs. Because it can read in a sequence from a database and
   write it to a file, seqret is a program for extracting sequences from
   databases. Because it can write the sequence to the screen, seqret is
   a program for displaying sequences.

   seqret can read sequences in any of a wide range of standard sequence
   formats. You can specify the input and output formats being used. If
   you don't specify the input format, seqret will try a set of possible
   formats until it reads it in successfully. Because you can specify the
   output sequence format, seqret is a program to reformat a sequence.

   seqret can read in the reverse complement of a nucleic acid sequence.
   It therefore is a program for producing the reverse complement of a
   sequence.

   seqret can read in a sequence whose begin and end positions you have
   specified and write out that fragment. It is therefore a utility for
   doing simple extraction of a region of a sequence.

   seqret can change the case of the sequence being read in to upper or
   to lower case. It is therefore a simple sequence beautification
   utility.

   seqret can do any combination of the above functions.

   The sequence input and output specification of this (and many other
   EMBOSS programs) is described as being a Uniform Sequence Address.

   The Uniform Sequence Address, or USA, is a somewhat tongue-in-cheek
   reference to a URL-style sequence naming used by all EMBOSS
   applications.

   The USA is a very flexible way of specifying one or more sequences
   from a variety of sources and includes sequence files, database
   queries and external applications.

   See the full specification of USA syntax at:
   http://emboss.sourceforge.net/docs/themes/UniformSequenceAddress.html 

   The basic USA syntax is one of:
     * "file"
     * "file:entry"
     * "format::file"
     * "format::file:entry"
     * "database:entry"
     * "database"
     * "@file"

   Note that ':' separates the name of a file containing many possible
   entries from the specific name of a sequence entry in that file. It
   also separates the name of a database from an entry in that database

   Note also that '::' separates the specified format of a file from the
   name of the file. Normally the format can be omitted, in which case
   the program will attempt to identify the correct format when reading
   the sequence in and will default to using FASTA format when writing
   the sequence out.

   Valid names of the databases set up in your local implementation of
   EMBOSS can be seen by using the program 'showdb'.

   Database queries, and individual entries in files that have more than
   one sequence entry, use wildcards of "?" for any character and "*" for
   any string of characters. There are some problems with the Unix shell
   catching these characters so they do need to be hidden in quotes or
   preceded by a backslash on the Unix command line, (for example
   "embl:hs\*")

   The output USA name 'stdout' is special. It makes the output go to the
   device 'standard output'. This is the screen, by default.

  Example USAs

   The following are valid USAs for sequences:

   USA Description
   xxx.seq A sequence file "xxx.seq" in any format
   fasta::xxx.seq A sequence file "xxx.seq" in fasta format
   gcg::egmsmg.gcg A sequence file "egmsmg.gcg" in GCG 9 format
   egmsmg.gcg -sformat=gcg A sequence file "egmsmg.gcg" in GCG 9 format
   embl::x13776.em A sequence file "x13776.em" in EMBL format
   embl:x13776 EMBL entry X13776, using whatever access method is defined
   locally for the EMBL database
   embl:K01793 EMBL entry K01793, using whatever access method is defined
   locally for the EMBL database and searching by accession number and
   entry name (K01793 is a secondary accession number in this case for
   entry J01636)
   embl-acc:K01793 EMBL entry X13776, using whatever access method is
   defined locally for the EMBL database and searching by accession
   number only
   embl-id:x13776 EMBL entry x13776, using whatever access method is
   defined locally for the EMBL database, and searching by ID only
   embl:v0029* EMBL entries V00290, V00291, and so on, usually in
   alphabetical order, using whatever access method is defined locally
   for the EMBL database
   embl or EMBL:* All sequences in the EMBL database
   @mylist Reads file mylist and uses each line as a separate USA. This
   is standard VMS list file syntax, also used in SRS 4.0 but missing in
   SRS 5.0 onwards. The list file is a list of USAs (one per line). List
   files can contain references to other lists files or any other
   standard USA.
   list::mylist Same as "@mylist" above
   'getz -e [embl-id:x13776] |' The pipe character "|" causes EMBOSS to
   fire up getz (SRS) to extract entry x13776 from EMBL in EMBL format.
   Any application or script which writes one or more sequences to stdout
   can be used in this way.
   asis::atacgcagttatctgaccat So far the shortest USA we could invent. In
   'asis' format the name is the sequence so no file needs to be opened.
   This is a special case. It was intended as a joke, but has proved
   quite useful for generating command lines when testing.

  Input sequence formats

   To date, the following sequence formats are accepted as input.

   By default, (i.e. if no format is explicitly specified) EMBOSS tries
   each format in turn until one succeeds.

   Input Format Comments
   gcg GCG 9.x and 10.x format with the format and sequence type
   identified on the first line of the file
   gcg8 GCG 8.x format where anything up to the first line containing
   ".." is considered as heading, and the remainder is sequence data.
   This format is complicated by the header appearing to be in other
   formats such as EMBL, and by the possibility of reading a large amount
   of data in the wrong format before discovering that there is no ".."
   line because it is not GCG format after all.
   embl
   em EMBL entry format, or at least a minimal subset of the fields. The
   Staden package and others use EMBL or similar formats for sequence
   data.
   swiss
   sw SWISSPROT entry format, or at least a minimal subset of the fields.
   fasta
   pearson FASTA format with an optional accession number after the
   sequence identifier, eg:
   >name description
   or
   >name accession description
   and with an optional database name in GCG style fasta format included
   as part of the sequence identifier, eg:
   >database:name accession description
   ncbi FASTA format with optional accession number and database name in
   NCBI style included as part of the sequence identifier. eg
   >database|accession|id description
   (and other variants on this theme!)
   genbank
   gb GENBANK entry format, or at least a minimal subset of the fields.
   nbrf
   pir NBRF (PIR) format, as used in the PIR database sequence files.
   codata CODATA format.
   strider DNA strider format
   clustal
   aln ClustalW ALN (multiple alignment) format.
   phylip PHYLIP interleaved multiple alignment format.
   acedb ACeDB format
   msf Wisconsin Package GCG's MSF multiple sequence format.
   hennig86 Hennig86 format
   jackknifer Jackknifer format
   jackknifernon Jackknifernon format
   nexus
   paup Nexus/PAUP format
   nexusnon
   paupnon Nexusnon/PAUPnon format
   treecon Treecon format
   mega Mega format
   meganon Meganon format
   ig IntelliGenetics format.
   staden
   experiment The experiment file format used by the "gap" program in the
   Staden package, where the sequence identifier is optional and the
   remainer is plain text. Some alternative nucleotide ambiguity codes
   are used and must be converted.
   unknown
   text
   plain Plain text. This is the format with no format. The whole of the
   file is read in as a sequence. No attempt is made to parse the file
   contents in any way. Anything is acceptable in this format.
   raw Like unknown/text/plain format except that it accepts only
   alphanumeric and whitespace characters and rejects anything else.
   asis This is not so much a sequence format as a quick way of entering
   a sequence on the command line, but it is included here for
   completeness. Where a filename would normally be given, in asis format
   there is the sequence itself. An example would be:
   asis::atacgcagttatctgaccat
   In 'asis' format the name is the sequence so no file needs to be
   opened. This is a special case. It was intended as a joke, but could
   be quite useful for generating command lines.

  Output sequence formats

   To date, the following sequence formats are available as output.

   Some sequence formats can hold multiple sequences in one file, these
   are marked as multiple in the following table. The details of how many
   sequences are held in one file differs between formats, but they
   either allow many sequences to be concatenated one after the other, or
   they hold the sequences together in some sort of aligned set of
   sequences.

   Other formats, such as GCG, plain and staden formats can only hold one
   sequence per file, these are marked as single. An attempt to
   concatenate several sequences in one file leaves the results as a mess
   that makes it impossible to decide where the sequences start and end
   or what is annotation and what is sequence.

   These single formats therefore cause problems when there are multiple
   sequences to write out because a single file containing multiple
   sequences in that format is invalid. When these formats are specified
   for output, an EMBOSS program will allow you to write many sequences
   to one file, but EMBOSS programs will not be able to reliably read in
   the resulting mess.

   N.B This behaviour changed in EMBOSS version 1.7.0. (31 Oct 2000)
   Previously, EMBOSS programs that were asked to write multiple
   sequences in a single format would ignore the requested output file
   name and would write each sequence into a separate file whose name was
   constructed from the sequence name and the name of the format. This
   resulted in ouput to files whose names could not be reliably
   controlled. A decision was taken that EMBOSS users were intelligent
   people who could live with the consequences of their actions and who
   could learn not to write out multiple sequences to a file in formats
   that could not cope with multiple sequences.

   It you really wish to write multiple sequences out in formats that can
   not cope with multiple sequences, you are advised to add the global
   qualifier -ossingle on the command line. This will force the EMBOSS
   program to ignore the given output file name and will generate its own
   file names. One sequence will be written to each such file. These file
   names are made from the sequence ID name, with the name of the format
   as the extension (e.g. x65923.gcg).

   This is not ideal. Preferably, you should stay away from formats that
   can't cope with multiple sequences in a file.

   Output Format Single/
   Multiple Comments
   gcg single Wisconsin Package GCG 9.x and 10.x format with the sequence
   type on the first line of the file.
   gcg8 single GCG 8.x format where anything up to the first line
   containing ".." is considered as heading, and the remainder is
   sequence data.
   embl
   em multiple EMBL entry format with available fields filled in and
   others with no infomation omitted. The EMBOSS command line allows
   missing data such as accession numbers to be provided if they are not
   obtainable from the input sequence.
   swiss
   sw multiple SwisProt entry format with available fields filled in and
   others with no infomation omitted. The EMBOSS command line allows
   missing data such as accession numbers to be provided if they are not
   obtainable from the input sequence.
   fasta multiple Standard Pearson FASTA format, but with the accession
   number included after the identifier if available.
   pearson multiple Simple Pearson FASTA format, an alias for "fasta"
   format.
   ncbi multiple NCBI style FASTA format with the database name, entry
   name and accession number separated by pipe ("|") characters.
   nbrf
   pir multiple NBRF (PIR) format, as used in the PIR database sequence
   files.
   genbank
   gb multiple GENBANK entry format with available fields filled in and
   others with no infomation omitted. The EMBOSS command line allows
   missing data such as accession numbers to be provided if they are not
   obtainable from the input sequence.
   ig multiple Intelligenetics format, as used by the Intelligenetics
   package
   codata multiple CODATA format.
   strider multiple DNA strider format
   acedb multiple ACeDB format
   staden
   experiment single The experiment file format used by the "gap" program
   in the Staden package. Some alternative nucleotide ambiguity codes are
   used and are converted.
   text
   plain
   raw single Plain sequence, no annotation or heading.
   fitch multiple Fitch format
   msf multiple Wisconsin Package GCG's MSF multiple sequence format.
   clustal
   aln multiple Clustal multiple sequence format.
   phylip multiple PHYLIP non-interleaved format.
   phylip3 multiple PHYLIP interleaved format.
   asn1 multiple A subset of ASN.1 containing entry name, accession
   number, description and sequence, similar to the current ASN.1 output
   of readseq
   hennig86 multiple Hennig86 format
   mega multiple Mega format
   meganon multiple Meganon format
   nexus
   paup multiple Nexus/PAUP format
   nexusnon
   paupnon multiple Nexusnon/PAUPnon format
   jackknifer multiple Jackknifer format
   jackknifernon multiple Jackknifernon format
   treecon multiple Treecon format
   debug multiple EMBOSS sequence object report for debugging showing all
   available fields. Not all fields will contain data - this depends very
   much on the input format used.

  Future directions

   More formats, both for input and for output, can be easily added, so
   suggestions are always welcome.

  Associated qualifiers

   As noted previously there are many 'associated' qualifiers that alter
   the behaviour of seqret when it reads in or writes out a sequence. As
   these are used in all EMBOSS programs that read in or write out
   sequences, they are not reported by the '-help' qualifier. They are
   however reported by the pair of qualifiers: '-help -verbose':

   Some of the more useful associated qualifiers are:

   Qualifier                        Description
   -sbegin   The first position to be used in the sequence
   -send     The last position to be used in the sequence
   -sreverse Use the reverse complement of a nucleic acid sequence
   -sask     Ask the user for begin/end/reverse information
   -slower   Convert the sequence to lower case
   -supper   Convert the sequence to upper case
   -sformat  Specify the input sequence format
   -osformat Specify the output sequence format
   -ossingle Write each entry into a separate file
   -auto     Turn off prompts and don't report the one-line description
   -stdout   Write the results to 'standard output' (the screen)
   -filter   Read input from another program, write to the screen
   -options  Prompt for optional qualifiers
   -help     Display a table of the command-line options

   The set of associated qualifiers for sequences behave in different
   ways depending on where they appear.

   If these qualifiers immediately follow a parameter they apply only to
   that parameter and not to all cases. If they occur before any
   parameters, they apply to all following sequence parameters.

   If there are no two parameters of equal type, the order of parameters
   and their qualifiers is irrelevant.

   Where a qualifier is defined more than once, for example "-sformat"
   for 2 input sequences to be aligned, the qualifier name can have a
   number to indicate which sequence is meant. "-sbegin2=25" will apply
   only to the second sequence, no matter where it appears on the command
   line.

   The -sbegin and -send qualifiers take an integer number specifying the
   position to begin or end reading a sequence. If the number is
   positive, the number is the position counting from the first base or
   residue of the sequence. If the number is negative the position is
   counted from the end of the sequence, so position -1 is the last base
   or residue of the sequence. (If -sbegin 0 is used, it is assumed to be
   the same as -sbegin 1 and -send 0 is the same as -send -1.)

   The filter qualifier makes the program behave like a filter, reading
   its (first) input 'file' from the standard input, and writing its
   (first) output 'file' to the standard output. The -filter qualifier
   will also invoke the -auto qualifier, so the user is never prompted
   for any missing values.

   Example:

% cat sequence.seq | seqret -filter | lpr

   The example shows the application seqret being run with the -filter
   qualifier. The input file is 'piped' into the program using the unix
   command cat and the output is 'piped' directly to the unix program
   lpr, which will print it on the printer.

   When the -options qualifier is used and not all the parameters are
   given on the command line, it will query the user for those
   parameters. It will not only query the user for the required
   parameters as it would do without the -options qualifier, but it will
   also query the user for the optional parameters.

   When the -stdout qualifier is used, the user will still be prompted
   for all the info that is required, but will write to standard output
   by default. The user will also still be prompted for an output
   filename, in case the user wants to save the output to a file.

References

   None.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with a status of 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

   Program name Description
   aligncopy Reads and writes alignments
   aligncopypair Reads and writes pairs from alignments
   biosed Replace or delete sequence sections
   codcopy Copy and reformat a codon usage table
   cutseq Removes a section from a sequence
   degapseq Removes non-alphabetic (e.g. gap) characters from sequences
   descseq Alter the name or description of a sequence
   entret Retrieves sequence entries from flatfile databases and files
   extractalign Extract regions from a sequence alignment
   extractfeat Extract features from sequence(s)
   extractseq Extract regions from a sequence
   featcopy Reads and writes a feature table
   featreport Reads and writes a feature table
   listor Write a list file of the logical OR of two sets of sequences
   makenucseq Create random nucleotide sequences
   makeprotseq Create random protein sequences
   maskambignuc Masks all ambiguity characters in nucleotide sequences
   with N
   maskambigprot Masks all ambiguity characters in protein sequences with
   X
   maskfeat Write a sequence with masked features
   maskseq Write a sequence with masked regions
   newseq Create a sequence file from a typed-in sequence
   nohtml Remove mark-up (e.g. HTML tags) from an ASCII text file
   noreturn Remove carriage return from ASCII files
   nospace Remove all whitespace from an ASCII text file
   notab Replace tabs with spaces in an ASCII text file
   notseq Write to file a subset of an input stream of sequences
   nthseq Write to file a single sequence from an input stream of
   sequences
   pasteseq Insert one sequence into another
   revseq Reverse and complement a nucleotide sequence
   seqretsplit Reads sequences and writes them to individual files
   sizeseq Sort sequences by size
   skipredundant Remove redundant sequences from an input set
   skipseq Reads and writes (returns) sequences, skipping first few
   splitter Split sequence(s) into smaller sequences
   trimest Remove poly-A tails from nucleotide sequences
   trimseq Remove unwanted characters from start and end of sequence(s)
   trimspace Remove extra whitespace from an ASCII text file
   union Concatenate multiple sequences into a single sequence
   vectorstrip Removes vectors from the ends of nucleotide sequence(s)
   yank Add a sequence reference (a full USA) to a list file

   Valid names of the databases set up in your local implementation of
   EMBOSS can be seen by using the program 'showdb'.

Author(s)

   Peter Rice (pmr © ebi.ac.uk)
   Informatics Division, European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome
   Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK

History

   1999 - Written by Peter Rice
   Feb 2002 - '-feature' qualifier added by Peter Rice

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.

Comments

  Fasta output format

    Question

   When i tried to convert the EMBL format file into fasta format using
   the program "seqret", I found that the Access.no appears twice...

>AF102796 AF102796 Homo sapiens alphaE-catenin (CTNNA1) gene, exon 11.

    Answer

   "It is not a bug ... it is a feature"

   There are many "FASTA formats". EMBOSS uses the format that ACEDB and
   the EBI genome projects use. The first field after the ID is the
   accession number, so that accession numbers can be kept when sequences
   are converted to FASTA format, without using the NCBI format (with '|'
   characters in the IDs).

   Your EMBL format file has IDs that look like accession numbers, so
   EMBOSS fills in the accession number for each sequence, and reports it
   in the FASTA format.
