                                  wossdata



Wiki

   The master copies of EMBOSS documentation are available at
   http://emboss.open-bio.org/wiki/Appdocs on the EMBOSS Wiki.

   Please help by correcting and extending the Wiki pages.

Function

   Finds programs by EDAM data

Description

   wossdata searches the annotation of application inputs and outputs in
   ACD files, using terms from the EDAM ontology. There are various
   options for controlling how the search is performed and what is given
   in the output file. Optionally, the output will be wrapped in HTML tags
   ready for inclusion in a Web page.

Algorithm

   The first search is of the EDAM ontology data namespace, using the term
   names and their synonynms. All child terms are automatically included
   in the set of matches inless the -nosubclasses qualifier is used.

   The -sensitive qualifier also searches the definition strings.

   The set of EDAM terms are then compared to relations in the ACD file,
   where input, output and parameter definitions require data references.

Usage

   Here is a sample session with wossdata

   Search for programs with 'codon' in their input, output or parameters


% wossdata codon
Finds programs by EDAM data

SEARCH FOR DATA 'CODON'
backtranseq Back-translate a protein sequence to a nucleotide sequence
cai         Calculate codon adaptation index
chips       Calculates Nc codon usage statistic
codcmp      Codon usage table comparison
codcopy     Copy and reformat a codon usage table
cusp        Create a codon usage table from nucleotide sequence(s)
cutgextract Extract codon usage tables from CUTG database
makenucseq  Create random nucleotide sequences
syco        Draw synonymous codon usage statistic plot for a nucleotide sequence
tcode       Identify protein-coding regions using Fickett TESTCODE statistic



Command line arguments

Finds programs by EDAM data
Version: EMBOSS:6.4.0.0

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-identifier]        string     Identifier(s) to search for in ontology (Any
                                  string)

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers:
   -explode            boolean    [N] The groups that EMBOSS applications
                                  belong to have two forms, exploded and not
                                  exploded. The exploded group names are more
                                  numerous and often vaguely phrased than the
                                  non-exploded ones. The exploded names are
                                  formed from definitions of the group names
                                  that start like NAME1:NAME2 and which are
                                  then expanded into many combinations of the
                                  names as: 'NAME1', 'NAME2', 'NAME1 NAME2',
                                  NAME2 NAME1'. The non-expanded names are
                                  simply like: 'NAME1 NAME2'.
   -showkeywords       boolean    [N] Show keywords with program documentation
   -outfile            outfile    [stdout] Tool metadata output file
   -html               toggle     [N] If you are sending the output to a file,
                                  this will format it for displaying as a
                                  table in a WWW document.
   -groups             boolean    [N] If you use this option, then only the
                                  group names will be output to the file
   -alphabetic         boolean    [N] If you use this option, then you will
                                  get a single list of the program names and
                                  descriptions instead of the programs being
                                  listed in their functional groups.

   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers:
   -sensitive          boolean    [N] By default, the query keywords are
                                  matched against the EDAM term names (and
                                  synonyms) only. This option also matches the
                                  keywords against the EDAM term definitions
                                  and will therefore (typically) report more
                                  matches.
   -[no]subclasses     boolean    [Y] Extend the query matches to include all
                                  terms which are specialisations (EDAM
                                  sub-classes) of the matched type.
   -obsolete           boolean    [N] The default behaviour is to not use or
                                  return obsolete terms. This option if set
                                  will include all terms.
   -[no]emboss         boolean    [Y] If you use this option then EMBOSS
                                  program documentation will be searched. If
                                  this option is set to be false, then only
                                  the EMBASSY programs will be searched (if
                                  the -embassy option is true). EMBASSY
                                  programs are not strictly part of EMBOSS,
                                  but use the same code libraries and share
                                  the same look and feel, but are generally
                                  developed by people who wish the programs to
                                  be outside of the GNU Public Licence scheme
   -[no]embassy        boolean    [Y] If you use this option then EMBASSY
                                  program documentation will be searched. If
                                  this option is set to be false, then only
                                  the EMBOSS programs will be searched (if the
                                  -emboss option is true). EMBASSY programs
                                  are not strictly part of EMBOSS, but use the
                                  same code libraries and share the same look
                                  and feel, but are generally developed by
                                  people who wish the programs to be outside
                                  of the GNU Public Licence scheme
   -showembassy        string     If you use this option then this EMBASSY
                                  package program documentation will be
                                  searched. EMBASSY programs are not strictly
                                  part of EMBOSS, but use the same code
                                  libraries and share the same look and feel,
                                  but are generally developed by people who
                                  wish the programs to be outside of the GNU
                                  Public Licence scheme (Any string)
   -colon              boolean    [N] The groups that EMBOSS applications
                                  belong to up to two levels, for example the
                                  primary group 'ALIGNMENT' has several
                                  sub-groups, or second-level groups, e.g.:
                                  CONSENSUS, DIFFERENCES, DOT PLOTS, GLOBAL,
                                  LOCAL, MULTIPLE. To aid programs that parse
                                  the output of wossname that require the
                                  names of these subgroups, a colon ':' will
                                  be placed between the first and second level
                                  of the group name if this option is true.
                                  Note: This does not apply if the group names
                                  have been exploded with the 'explode'
                                  option.
   -gui                boolean    [N] This option is intended to help those
                                  who are designing Graphical User Interfaces
                                  to the EMBOSS applications. Some EMBOSS
                                  programs are inappropriate for running in a
                                  GUI, these include other menu programs and
                                  interactive editors. This option allows you
                                  to only report those programs that can be
                                  run from a GUI

   Associated qualifiers:

   "-outfile" associated qualifiers
   -odirectory         string     Output directory

   General qualifiers:
   -auto               boolean    Turn off prompts
   -stdout             boolean    Write first file to standard output
   -filter             boolean    Read first file from standard input, write
                                  first file to standard output
   -options            boolean    Prompt for standard and additional values
   -debug              boolean    Write debug output to program.dbg
   -verbose            boolean    Report some/full command line options
   -help               boolean    Report command line options and exit. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose
   -warning            boolean    Report warnings
   -error              boolean    Report errors
   -fatal              boolean    Report fatal errors
   -die                boolean    Report dying program messages
   -version            boolean    Report version number and exit


Input file format

   wossdata reads the brief descriptions and the program groups from the
   ACD files. (ACD files control the parameters that the programs expect -
   don't worry about them unless you are writing EMBOSS programs).

Output file format

   The results are written out as a simple list of program names and short
   descriptions.

Data files

   The EDAM Ontology is included in EMBOSS as local database edam.

Notes

   None.

References

   None.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with status 0.

Known bugs

   None.

See also

                     Program name                          Description
                    drfinddata     Find public databases by data type
                    drfindformat   Find public databases by format
                    drfindid       Find public databases by identifier
   drfindresource   Find public databases by resource
                    edamdef        Find EDAM ontology terms by definition
                    edamhasinput   Find EDAM ontology terms by has_input relation
                    edamhasoutput  Find EDAM ontology terms by has_output relation
                    edamisformat   Find EDAM ontology terms by is_format_of relation
                    edamisid       Find EDAM ontology terms by is_identifier_of relation
                    edamname       Find EDAM ontology terms by name
                    seealso        Finds programs with similar function to a specified program
                    tfm            Displays full documentation for an application
                    wossinput      Finds programs by EDAM input data
                    wossname       Finds programs by keywords in their short description
                    wossoperation  Finds programs by EDAM operation
                    wossoutput     Finds programs by EDAM output data
                    wossparam      Finds programs by EDAM parameter
                    wosstopic      Finds programs by EDAM topic

Author(s)

   Peter            Rice
   European         Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus,
   Hinxton,         Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK

                    Please report all bugs to the EMBOSS bug team
                    (emboss-bug (c) emboss.open-bio.org) not to the original author.

History

Target users

                    This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
                    naive users to embedded scripts.

Comments

                    None
